Go down there and drink, and drink, and drink, and drink.
You couldn't eat anything.
You were 10% dehydrated every day.
And your body won't take on food.
It is screaming for rehydration.
And it was always that way with his practices.
With Coach George,
A typical practice lasted about what?
I would say an hour and a half, rarely two hours.
Was it well planned in terms of what happened, how long?
Nothing like Coach Bryant.
Coach Bryant was regimented like a military unit.
the whistle blew and you moved to the next drill and et cetera.
With Ray George, it was more relaxed and if he wanted to do something for a while with you, he didn't pay that much attention to the schedule.
Coach George was what I would describe as laid back, easy going.
Were there some rules, either spoken or unspoken, that you all realized were real rules with Coach George?
Oh, absolutely.
But they were the rules of life that we all followed then.
We didn't drink and we didn't stay out late and we didn't break the rules and we did what we were told and never questioned it.
Were there some folks that smoked on the team?
Yes, but they didn't do it during the season.
As a general rule,
The smoking that was done would be done on the weekend maybe when they were playing hearts or pinochle or something like that.
That's where the smoking took place.
You never wanted the coach, you never allowed the coach to see you smoking.
Now, that first semester you were in Hart, then where did you live?
I moved to the Corps and lived in the Corps for one year and I'm proud that I spent a year in the Corps.
What outfit?
A-Signal.
Did it have a nickname?
Or if it did, I don't remember.
Did you have a nickname?
Did your buddies give you a nickname?
Just Charlie.
Just Charlie?
Yes.
And your major then became what?
Animal husbandry, still.
Why that?
Why?
It was agriculture and I wanted to be a farmer rancher.
I didn't worry about how I was going to be a farmer rancher.
I wanted to be a farmer and rancher.
And I was bound and determined to get my degree
but the best place in the United States to be one, in College Station.
Lee Phillips, whom you know well, was the first sergeant that year when I moved over there.
Bless his heart, I hate to see Lee's health feeling like it is right now.
He was over at all the ceremonies with the Reveille here a week ago, and my goodness, he's walking with a cane at times, and you know, he's got some heart problems.
But Lee's a wonderful fellow.
and he was a top sergeant in that outfit and I really enjoyed my year in the Corps.
Now how did you happen to end up in that outfit?
Was it by choice or?
It was by choice.
You were always given your choice of what outfit or what branch of the military you wanted to be in and I chose the Signal Corps to learn something.
It sounded like a way to learn some
technology without studying engineering.
But like I say, I lived there a year and then Coach Bryant gave me, I mean Coach George gave me the scholarship and I moved back to Hart Hall.
The, that year that you were over there, you were out for football.
Did, when there were any pranks in the dormitory, did they leave, did the freshman leave you alone?
Or were you,
just about included like all the other sophomores?
I felt as one of them.
Those were good guys and I felt like that I fit in right with them.
You have to understand my personality is I've been tested many times
And I'm pretty far left on the introverted side, and therefore I'm quiet and unimposing and mind my business and, you know, go along to get along.
I'm not a hell raiser.
And I always feel like I have to prove myself.
In every situation, I have to prove myself.
whether it's playing football on the sandlot or on Kyle Field or teaching in the classroom or whatever.
It stays that way your whole life.
Any new situation, you have to prove to yourself that you're capable of doing it.
Now, then that second year, did you have a football player as a roommate or?
Oh, yes.
Who was your...
I roomed with my buddy from Aransas Pass, Hal Parks.
Oh, how good, how good.
Lifetime buddy, still is.
They came up and went to the Oklahoma game with us this past fall.
Did, what was the routine for y'all on a normal day?
What time did you get up?
What time did you do this, that, or the other?
Oh, we'd get up about
7 o'clock, 6.30 to 7.
And we'd march up out in front of Hart Hall and march down to breakfast.
And of course, have to be finished in class by 8 o'clock.
And so the fact that y'all were athletes didn't matter about the routine and all that?
No, sir.
Same as everybody else.
Did y'all go to class regularly?
Whenever we had one scheduled.
Every time we had one scheduled.
And we marched, drilled every Thursday just like everybody else in the Corps did until Coach Bryant came.
He changed all that.
If you had any unscheduled time, hour or two during the day, where did you and or your buddies, where did y'all go to relax?
to get ease?
Well, if it was in the afternoon and still daylight, we would
get a football or something and go out on the grass.
No, not, I'm sorry, there was not any grass on the campus.
None, not even a blade of grass.
Remember I was there during the time it never rained?
You've read Elmer's book, haven't you?
One of the best books I've ever read.
There wasn't a blade of grass on the campus, if you can believe that.
did manage to get some going after a few years at the student center.
You remember it opened in 1950, I believe it was, and of course you didn't walk on it and they got some grass, but outside of that there was no grass on the campus.
We'd go over to the drill field which was just across a couple of streets or out beside Guyon Hall.
If we had a little time in the evening when we should have been studying but didn't want to,
We'd go over and sneak in Guy and Hawk and see a movie, and we got caught many times, and they'd just walk us down the front door and ask us to leave.
Because you couldn't go back to your room and sleep, could you, very successfully, if you had an hour in the afternoon?
The athletic dorm is a pretty loud place.
And it's not conducive to good study time nor good sleeping time during, you know, daylight hours.
What about the library?
Did you all go over there and find a quiet corner sometime?
Yes, sometime.
Sometime we'd go over to the MSC and find a quiet corner.
More likely because the MSC was a little bit closer to us.
and find a quiet corner and get a cup of coffee or something over there.
Honestly, your days were pretty busy when you're taking 18 hours, and then you're taking 18 hours and playing football.
And my last semester, under Coach Bryant, I was taking 20 hours and playing football.
There wasn't any free time.
Are you aware of what the students think a full-time load is now?
Well, I hear that it's not like it used to be.
They think 12 hours is the normal full-time load, not the minimum minimum.
They think that's normal and that 15 is a heavy load.
And therefore, they don't expect to graduate in four years.
Times have changed a good deal.
Well, I don't know if it's for the better or not.
Let's see.
For you as a transfer, how did you get indoctrinated
into all kinds of Aggie traditions, practices, myths.
I got a book and taught myself.
They had a book for freshmen that had all of the traditions and everything in it, and I studied that thing religiously.
Do you remember ever in your first days that you didn't whip out correctly or didn't remember?
Oh, goodness gracious, yes.
And you talk about some butt-chewing.
Oh, my goodness.
I'll never forget one morning coming back from Cebiza mess hall to get ready to go to class.
A senior walked up behind me and I,
Guess I didn't say Heidi loud enough or didn't add sir to it or something.
He stood me at attention on the sidewalk south of Sebesa Mess Hall for long enough to make me late for class.
Chewing my butt like I had never been chewed before in my, I've often wished that I could remember his name because it really caught my attention about perhaps my lack of
Fitting in according to the way the Corps did it.
Living in Hart Hall, I was considered slovenly.
My brass wasn't quite as polished.
My shoes didn't shine as well.
Maybe I didn't walk straight enough.
And I didn't argue with that assessment, but I just realized that morning how they perceived athletes.
And it really didn't make me angry other than that I hated to be late to class.
You usually got a tail chewing for going into class late.
Now, as far as you were aware in your first semesters here, or even all of them, were there any easy courses,
in terms of grades for athletes?
No, sir.
Absolutely not.
I've thought about that many times.
I often wondered, did they slack off on Bob Smith or Darrell Hooper or, you know,
I never saw any of that, Haskell, so help me, no.
I've not heard, I've not heard of any.
No, sir.
And, all right, did you hear of any courses, though, that for everybody were a little easier to pass than some other courses?
No.
Really?
No, sir, I'm sorry.
I don't remember any courses in, of course, I'm in the College of Agriculture.
Every course I took, it didn't make any difference if it was English or feeds and feeding or nutrition or history.
Goodness gracious, they were tough.
Who were some?
For me, they were tough.
Try to recall those semesters if you can.
Who were some of the great people whose classes you took?
The person and or the course.
Well, there.
Unless you're as great as memorable.
There is a gentleman that's still living in College Station
What's his name that taught me sociology?
Barton Nelson?
No sir.
And I saw him about sometime last fall and just seeing his face made his name come to my mind immediately and I walked up and shook hands with him and he must be pushing 90 or so.
It won't come to me right now, but I remember him so well.
What made his course memorable?
Everything about it.
He was a person that believed in punctuality.
Most of them did.
Started on time, ended on time.
No nonsense.
Knew the subject, taught it well.
When you got through with the course, you felt like that your time had been well spent and that you had been challenged.
That's what I appreciate in a teacher, whether it's in first grade or in college.
And there were so many of them.
The only, and I ask myself many times if I'm being critical because I flunked the course, I flunked
Freshman chemistry and that's all.
In my eight years at A&M, I came back and went to vet school after my animal husbandry degree.
My instructor in chemistry, freshman chemistry, was Chinese and I really had difficulty understanding him.
I'm not using that as an excuse, but I thought that it was not right that
I had to overcome that barrier and I was not able to.
Chemistry, the reason I didn't pass freshman chemistry, I am sure, is because I did not take any chemistry in high school.
That was my first exposure and that's a tough course.
But that's the only instructor that I had that concerned me because of that one obstacle.
I couldn't understand much of what he said.
What about English, history, math?
I remember taking English literature from a World War II veteran bachelor who
In 1952 or three, probably two, when I took the course, he was a veteran of World War II, which had happened, what, 10 years previously.
So he was in his early 30s.
I remember him again, Eads.
EADS, I believe.
He was a bombardier on a B-24.
And the amazing thing about this fellow
I can see him this very moment in the academic building where I took English, standing, coming into class if there was a bell to sound the second for the hour.
That's when he walked in, opened his briefcase, got his last night.
He was there and he started.
Each day he had on a different suit, a different pair of shoes, a different tie, and he was immaculately dressed.
That was his trademark.
Did he have a nickname?
Probably, but I didn't participate.
I'm sure he had several nicknames, but he knew his stuff and he was so demanding.
If he caught you looking out the window, he told you.
Did you ever go to sleep in class and get caught?
No, sir.
What about history?
Did you take history?
Oh, absolutely.
Screaming Owl?
Yes.
I had forgotten about him.
And history was a tough course for me, too.
My goodness, I've got some of my papers over there on my desk now.
I think one of them is 84 and one of them is 88.
That's a pretty good grade for me in history.
Then in animal science, did you by chance have a class from Professor Butler?
Oh, absolutely.
Describe Butler as a faculty, as a teacher.
Well, of course, he was in his early years, O.D., sir, Dr.
O.D., sir.
He was spitting polish.
It seemed like that he was just one of a battalion of instructors that were trained by the military to do everything precisely.
That's the way he did it.
And he was extremely demanding.
He was extremely sharp.
He knew his material front and backwards.
He taught both lab and lecture and meets.
He was teaching meets, of course, then.
And he was just good.
There's only one thing that I criticize Dr. Butler for, bless his heart, and that's before he died I criticize him.
I don't criticize him for anything anymore since he's passed.
When I came back to A&M in 1960 to go to vet school, I was married and I had three children and I wanted to be a veterinarian by this time so I'd have a better chance of getting ahead in the world.
The first ranch job I applied for, $300 a month in a little shack to live in with three kids.
I told him I can't make it on that.
So I never became a ranch manager.
I went to see Dr. Butler, and I told him I was coming back to school.
And he said, oh, great.
But I said, Dr. Butler, I'm going to study veterinary medicine.
What for?
Why don't you take a PhD program here?
You know how you could be.
I said, well, sir, I made up my mind and I need a job badly.
I've got a family and I've got to work, yep, work my way through school.
He said, I'm sorry, but we only give jobs to our program students.
You'll have to look elsewhere.
And that really disappointed me.
But anyway, that's the way it was.
Let's see.
As you're going into your sophomore, junior year, what did you do in the summers?
Back home?
No, not necessarily back home.
The first summer of 51 I went to back to Sinton.
There was a reason for it of course.
I had left a little girlfriend back there and that was one of my reasons for my unhappiness of having to move to Dallas is leaving my little sweetheart behind and so
I decided I had an uncle that lived in Sinton, my daddy's brother, and so I lived with them that summer and I worked as a roughneck in the oil fields.
What kind of money did a roughneck make then?
Good money.
We made about 90 cents an hour and the driller made, I believe,
$1.35 an hour, and the tool pusher made, I think, $1.55 an hour.
And you all worked long hours, too, did you?
No, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
In those days, you worked three shifts.
Yeah.
But work long hours, yes, because... Seven days a week, wasn't it?
Seven days a week.
And in that bunch, there's always those that don't show up for work.
So they always ask you to double over and work 16 hours, and I did that many times.
I worked the graveyard midnight shift, and many times I'd work on through until 4 o'clock the next afternoon.
And down in the Centen area?
Mm-hmm.
Between Centen and Taft.
So that the Texas A&M didn't have any, they didn't get you that job.
No way.
Then after the next year.
The next year I worked in Dallas for Austin Bridge Company.
Pouring concrete, building foundation on big grain elevators there west of Dallas all summer long, working with a jackhammer and a cement vibrator, concrete vibrator, in the heat of the drought.
But I was young.
All right.
And when you came to school each fall, do you have any idea about how much money you brought with you for spending money?
What did?
I brought two or three hundred?
Probably not two or three hundred.
I bought clothes and
shoes and all kinds of things that needed to be replaced.
I probably came back with more than a hundred dollars, but my goodness.
That was a lot of money.
It was plenty of money.
Did you, in general, did you pay your
Pretty well your total way through.
Everything after that, yes.
But understand I was, had the ROTC contract, 90 cents a day, which was $27 a month, plus what I made during the summertime.
And then when you got the scholarship.
Scholarship paid for everything, plus $12 a month for laundry.
I was flush.
Well, now you came to, when you arrived that first year, you had a car.
Oh, no.
Oh, I thought you said you had a car you came in.
I came in the family car.
Oh, oh, oh.
I deprived my family of the car for a week.
Oh, oh, oh, okay.
All right.
So did you ever have wheels?
Oh, no.
Okay.
No, sir.
How that, during that first year, that first semester here, about how often did you go back home to Dallas?
The first semester, maybe.
Spring break?
Maybe twice.
And.
Yeah, spring break.
How did you get, how did you make that, did you hitchhike?
Describe Aggie hitchhiking.
A breeze.
Go up to the east gate, generally after Saturday morning class and the noon meal.
Walk to the east gate and stand in line.
Might be a hundred there, might be a hundred and fifty.
Everybody that came by in a car stopped and filled up.
And you were there less than an hour.
And people were happy to give you a ride.
Did you ever have a negative Aggie hitchhiking experience?
Not negative, but scary.
Such as?
Hitchhiking to Sinton and Aransas Pass, my bud roommate and I.
We decided once that we'd go through Houston to try to get a little better, instead of trying to go off down through Branham and the backwoods that way, we'd go through Houston and then get on, what is it, 59, I forgot, going southwest.
We hitchhiked to Houston with no problem and we're in downtown Houston.
I mean with the big buildings.
and you can't hitchhike in downtown Houston so we got on a bus, a city bus and rode out to the west side of town and got out and we got out there about six o'clock yeah about six o'clock in the afternoon and understand we left at one o'clock and we had to be back at eight o'clock on Monday
And we had this 240 miles times two trip to make.
Never concerned us at all.
We stood there on that west side of Houston thumbing and thumbing and thumbing until we were blue in the face.
Those people would not stop.
Until about 10.30 at night.
We'd been standing there on the street all the time.
A Mexican fellow who barely spoke English stopped and picked us up, and he was seven sheets to the wind.
We didn't care.
He was on his way to Corpus Christi.
And we got in that car, and he got out on open road, and I'm telling you, 85.
and it wasn't in a straight line.
Hit the rough side and all over the road and so we learned that if we'd engage him in conversation, he'd slow down.
We spent the next four hours talking to him to keep him from driving so wild and recklessly and he took us right down to Sinton.
We got there at 2 o'clock in the morning.
And I don't remember where we found a public telephone.
We found a phone somewhere and Hal still had to go the 26 miles to Aransas Pass and he called his mother and his mother came up there and got us, got him.
I stayed in Sinton.
I was there to see my girlfriend again and I stayed with my uncle and
That was 2 o'clock Sunday morning.
Well, at 1 o'clock on Sunday afternoon, we got to head back in another direction.
I got up in time to go to church on Sunday morning and meet my girlfriend and sit in church with her and tell her goodbye.
Head back.
Now, during those years at A&M, how did you communicate with your family?
By letter.
And about how often do you remember?
My mom wrote more often than I did.
Once a week?
Probably a couple of times a month.
Okay.
But there's one thing that I remember about my mom.
Every time that she sent me a letter, she put a one dollar bill in it.
Oh, really?
Every time.
And did you think those were to be used for anything special?
No.
I thought that mom sent it because she felt like I needed it.
But was it all right to spend that dollar for extra food or a movie?
Absolutely.
And did you send them copies?
Did you let them know what your grades were?
Absolutely.
I didn't have any choice.
In those days, they sent a copy home.
I didn't have any choice in it.
But my grades did all right after the first semester.
I was not an exemplary student.
I was a young student who wanted to be there, so B's and C's were mostly my thing.
I didn't learn how to be a good student until I went to vet school.
Now, did you get involved in any good bull or any pranks?
Not very many.
I will say this.
First place, I didn't want to get in trouble.
I loved where I was and I loved what I was doing and I wanted to be here and I wanted to stay here.
I loved Texas A&M just like I do to this very day.
But Bobby Dixon, I started to tell you this story once.
Bobby Dixon was the big tackle on the football team, senior when I was a sophomore.
And he was always coming in late on Saturday night or Sunday morning and harassing everybody, kicking.